en/browser-object-model-bom/popup.md, before:

---
chapter: 16
pageNumber: 81
---
# Popup

Popups are an additional way to show information, take user confirmation, or take user input from additional documents. A popup can navigate to a new URL and send information to the opener window. **Alert box**, **Confirmation box**,  and **Prompt box** are the global functions where we can show the popup information.

1.  **alert()**: It displays information to the user and has an  "**OK**" button to proceed.

    ```javascript
    alert("Alert message example");
    ```
2.  **confirm()**: Use as a dialog box to confirm or accept something. It has "**Ok**" and "**Cancel**" to proceed. If the user clicks "**Ok**" then it returns `true`, if click "**Cancel**" it returns  `false`.&#x20;

    ```javascript
    let txt;
    if (confirm("Press a button!")) {
      txt = "You pressed OK!";
    } else {
      txt = "You pressed Cancel!";
    }
    ```
3.  **prompt()**: Takes user input value with "**Ok"** and "**Cancel"** buttons. It returns `null` if the user does not provide any input value.

    ```javascript
    //syntax 
    //window.prompt("sometext","defaultText");

    let person = prompt("Please enter your name", "Harry Potter");

    if (person == null || person == "") {
      txt = "User cancelled the prompt.";
    } else {
      txt = "Hello " + person + "! How are you today?";
    }
    ```

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add description of each chapter for SEO purposes

en/browser-object-model-bom/popup.md, after:

---
chapter: 16
pageNumber: 81
description: Popups are small window that appears on top of main browser to provide information. It is used to show notifications, alerts, dialogs, login forms, or any other content that should appear temporarily or in a separate context from the main page.
---
# Popup

Popups are an additional way to show information, take user confirmation, or take user input from additional documents. A popup can navigate to a new URL and send information to the opener window. **Alert box**, **Confirmation box**,  and **Prompt box** are the global functions where we can show the popup information.

1.  **alert()**: It displays information to the user and has an  "**OK**" button to proceed.

    ```javascript
    alert("Alert message example");
    ```
2.  **confirm()**: Use as a dialog box to confirm or accept something. It has "**Ok**" and "**Cancel**" to proceed. If the user clicks "**Ok**" then it returns `true`, if click "**Cancel**" it returns  `false`.&#x20;

    ```javascript
    let txt;
    if (confirm("Press a button!")) {
      txt = "You pressed OK!";
    } else {
      txt = "You pressed Cancel!";
    }
    ```
3.  **prompt()**: Takes user input value with "**Ok"** and "**Cancel"** buttons. It returns `null` if the user does not provide any input value.

    ```javascript
    //syntax 
    //window.prompt("sometext","defaultText");

    let person = prompt("Please enter your name", "Harry Potter");

    if (person == null || person == "") {
      txt = "User cancelled the prompt.";
    } else {
      txt = "Hello " + person + "! How are you today?";
    }
    ```
