en/api-ajax.md, before:

---
layout: editorial
chapter: 22
pageNumber: 80
description: This chapter introduces the concept of APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) and demonstrates their use through AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML). Learn how to fetch data from external sources and integrate it into web applications for enhanced functionality.
---
# Chapter 22
# Web API and AJAX

# API (Application Programming Interface)

An **API** (Application Programming Interface) is a set of rules and protocols that allows different software applications to communicate with each other. It defines the methods and data formats that applications can use to request and exchange information.

## Key Points

- APIs enable developers to access the functionality of other software components, services, or platforms without needing to understand their internal workings.

- APIs provide a way for applications to send requests and receive responses, allowing them to interact and share data seamlessly.

- Common types of APIs include **web APIs** that allow web applications to communicate over the internet, **library APIs** that provide reusable code functions, and **operating system APIs** that enable interaction with the underlying OS.

- APIs are essential for creating integrations, building software on top of existing platforms, and enabling interoperability between different systems.

- API documentation, often provided by developers or service providers, explains how to use an API, including available endpoints, request methods, and response formats.

- Examples of popular APIs include social media APIs (e.g., Facebook Graph API), payment gateway APIs (e.g., PayPal API), and cloud service APIs (e.g., AWS API).

## Benefits of APIs

- **Interoperability:** APIs allow different software systems to work together, promoting compatibility and data exchange.

- **Efficiency:** Developers can leverage existing APIs to save time and effort, focusing on building specific functionality.

- **Scalability:** APIs enable the expansion of services and features by integrating with third-party tools and services.

- **Innovation:** APIs foster innovation by opening up opportunities for developers to create new applications and services.

- **Security:** APIs often include authentication and authorization mechanisms to ensure secure access to data and services.

# AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML)

AJAX, short for **Asynchronous JavaScript and XML**, is a foundational technology in web development. It enables web applications to make asynchronous requests to a server, retrieve data, and update parts of a web page without requiring a full page reload. While the name suggests XML, AJAX can work with various data formats, with JSON being the most common.

## What is AJAX?

At its core, AJAX is a technique that allows web pages to communicate with a server in the background, without disrupting the user's interaction with the page. This asynchronous behavior is achieved using JavaScript and enables the development of more interactive and responsive web applications.

## How does AJAX work?

1. **JavaScript**: AJAX heavily relies on JavaScript to initiate requests and handle responses asynchronously.

2. **XMLHttpRequest (XHR) Object**: While historically the `XMLHttpRequest` object was used, modern web development often employs the `fetch` API for AJAX requests, which provides a more intuitive and flexible approach.

3. **Server Communication**: When a user triggers an event, such as clicking a button, JavaScript sends an HTTP request to the server. These requests can be GET (for fetching data) or POST (for sending data to the server).

4. **Asynchronous Processing**: AJAX requests are asynchronous, meaning that the browser can continue executing other code while waiting for the response. This prevents the user interface from freezing.

5. **Response Handling**: Once the server processes the request, it sends a response back to the client. JavaScript then handles this response, typically by updating the Document Object Model (DOM) with the new data.

6. **Rendering**: The updated content is rendered on the web page without requiring a full page reload, resulting in a smoother user experience.

## Benefits of AJAX

- **Improved User Experience**: AJAX allows web applications to load and display data without the need for full page refreshes, making the user experience more seamless and interactive.

- **Efficiency**: AJAX requests are lightweight and only transfer the necessary data, reducing bandwidth usage and enhancing application performance.

- **Real-time Updates**: AJAX is crucial for building real-time features like chat applications, live notifications, and dynamic content updates.

- **Dynamic Loading**: Content can be loaded on-demand, leading to faster initial page load times and more responsive applications.

## Common Use Cases

Some common scenarios where AJAX is used include:

- **Form Submissions**: Submitting forms without reloading the entire page for validation and data submission.

- **Infinite Scrolling**: Loading additional content as the user scrolls down a page, providing a continuous browsing experience.

- **Auto-suggestions**: Providing real-time search suggestions as users type in search queries.

- **Updating Content**: Dynamically updating content like news feeds, weather information, or sports scores without requiring manual page refreshes.

# Fetching Weather Data with OpenWeatherMap API using AJAX

In this example, we'll demonstrate how to use AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) to fetch weather information from the OpenWeatherMap API and display it on a web page.

## Introduction

The OpenWeatherMap API is a powerful tool for retrieving weather information for locations around the world. This example demonstrates how to use the API to fetch current weather data for a specific city and display it in your application or documentation.

## API Key

Before getting started, you need to sign up for an API key from [OpenWeatherMap](https://openweathermap.org/api) to access their weather data API. Replace `'YOUR_API_KEY'` in the code below with your actual API key.

```javascript
const apiKey = 'YOUR_API_KEY';
```
# Simple Weather App HTML

In this example, we'll provide the HTML structure for a simple weather app that fetches and displays weather data from the OpenWeatherMap API.

## HTML Structure

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>Weather App</title>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Weather Report</h1>
  <button id="fetchButton">Fetch Data</button>
  <div id="weather-info">
    <!-- Data will be displayed here -->
  </div>
  <script src="script.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

## JavaScript (script.js)

Create a JavaScript file named `script.js` to handle the AJAX request and update the weather data on the page:

```javascript
// API Endpoint and Location
const apiUrl = 'https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather';
const location = 'New York'; // Replace with your desired location

// Fetch Weather Data
const xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
xhr.open('GET', `${apiUrl}?q=${location}&appid=${apiKey}`, true);

xhr.onload = function () {
  if (xhr.status === 200) {
    const weatherInfo = document.getElementById('weather-info');
    const data = JSON.parse(xhr.responseText);
    const temperature = (data.main.temp - 273.15).toFixed(2); // Convert from Kelvin to Celsius

    const html = `
      <p><strong>Location:</strong> ${data.name}, ${data.sys.country}</p>
      <p><strong>Temperature:</strong> ${temperature} °C</p>
      <p><strong>Weather:</strong> ${data.weather[0].description}</p>
    `;

    weatherInfo.innerHTML = html;
  } else {
    const weatherInfo = document.getElementById('weather-info');
    weatherInfo.innerHTML = '<p>Failed to fetch weather data.</p>';
  }
};

xhr.send();
```
## Result

When you open the HTML file in a web browser, it will display the weather information for the specified location (New York in this case). Make sure to replace `'YOUR_API_KEY'` with your actual OpenWeatherMap API key.

This example demonstrates how to fetch weather data from the OpenWeatherMap API using AJAX and display it on a simple web page.

Remember to host your HTML and JavaScript files on a web server if you plan to access the API from a live website.

That's it! You've successfully fetched and displayed weather data using the OpenWeatherMap API and AJAX.


## Conclusion

APIs play a crucial role in modern software development by enabling applications to collaborate and share data effectively. Understanding how to use APIs and integrate them into your projects is fundamental for building feature-rich and interconnected software.

AJAX is a foundational technology in modern web development that empowers developers to create dynamic and responsive web applications. While the name suggests XML, AJAX is compatible with various data formats, making it a versatile tool for enhancing the user experience and creating interactive web applications.

Commit message:

docs: formating text of api/ajax  and  single thread nature chapter

en/api-ajax.md, after:

---
layout: editorial
chapter: 22
pageNumber: 80
description: This chapter introduces the concept of APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) and demonstrates their use through AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML). Learn how to fetch data from external sources and integrate it into web applications for enhanced functionality.
---
# Chapter 22
# Web API and AJAX
In this chapter, we will discuss API and AJAX, the two important technologies that enable applications to interact with servers and send or retrieve data without the need for a full page reload. 

## API (Application Programming Interface)

An **API** (Application Programming Interface) is a set of rules and protocols that allows different software applications to communicate with each other. It defines the methods and data formats that applications can use to request and exchange information.

## Key Points

- APIs enable developers to access the functionality of other software components, services, or platforms without needing to understand their internal workings.

- APIs provide a way for applications to send requests and receive responses, allowing them to interact and share data seamlessly.

- Common types of APIs include **web APIs** that allow web applications to communicate over the internet, **library APIs** that provide reusable code functions, and **operating system APIs** that enable interaction with the underlying OS.

- APIs are essential for creating integrations, building software on top of existing platforms, and enabling interoperability between different systems.

- API documentation, often provided by developers or service providers, explains how to use an API, including available endpoints, request methods, and response formats.

- Examples of popular APIs include social media APIs (e.g., Facebook Graph API), payment gateway APIs (e.g., PayPal API), and cloud service APIs (e.g., AWS API).

## Benefits of APIs

- **Interoperability:** APIs allow different software systems to work together, promoting compatibility and data exchange.

- **Efficiency:** Developers can leverage existing APIs to save time and effort, focusing on building specific functionality.

- **Scalability:** APIs enable the expansion of services and features by integrating with third-party tools and services.

- **Innovation:** APIs foster innovation by opening up opportunities for developers to create new applications and services.

- **Security:** APIs often include authentication and authorization mechanisms to ensure secure access to data and services.

# AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML)

AJAX, short for **Asynchronous JavaScript and XML**, is a foundational technology in web development. It enables web applications to make asynchronous requests to a server, retrieve data, and update parts of a web page without requiring a full page reload. While the name suggests XML, AJAX can work with various data formats, with JSON being the most common.

## What is AJAX?

At its core, AJAX is a technique that allows web pages to communicate with a server in the background, without disrupting the user's interaction with the page. This asynchronous behavior is achieved using JavaScript and enables the development of more interactive and responsive web applications.

## How does AJAX work?

1. **JavaScript**: AJAX heavily relies on JavaScript to initiate requests and handle responses asynchronously.

2. **XMLHttpRequest (XHR) Object**: While historically the `XMLHttpRequest` object was used, modern web development often employs the `fetch` API for AJAX requests, which provides a more intuitive and flexible approach.

3. **Server Communication**: When a user triggers an event, such as clicking a button, JavaScript sends an HTTP request to the server. These requests can be GET (for fetching data) or POST (for sending data to the server).

4. **Asynchronous Processing**: AJAX requests are asynchronous, meaning that the browser can continue executing other code while waiting for the response. This prevents the user interface from freezing.

5. **Response Handling**: Once the server processes the request, it sends a response back to the client. JavaScript then handles this response, typically by updating the Document Object Model (DOM) with the new data.

6. **Rendering**: The updated content is rendered on the web page without requiring a full page reload, resulting in a smoother user experience.

## Benefits of AJAX

- **Improved User Experience**: AJAX allows web applications to load and display data without the need for full page refreshes, making the user experience more seamless and interactive.

- **Efficiency**: AJAX requests are lightweight and only transfer the necessary data, reducing bandwidth usage and enhancing application performance.

- **Real-time Updates**: AJAX is crucial for building real-time features like chat applications, live notifications, and dynamic content updates.

- **Dynamic Loading**: Content can be loaded on-demand, leading to faster initial page load times and more responsive applications.

## Common Use Cases

Some common scenarios where AJAX is used include:

- **Form Submissions**: Submitting forms without reloading the entire page for validation and data submission.

- **Infinite Scrolling**: Loading additional content as the user scrolls down a page, providing a continuous browsing experience.

- **Auto-suggestions**: Providing real-time search suggestions as users type in search queries.

- **Updating Content**: Dynamically updating content like news feeds, weather information, or sports scores without requiring manual page refreshes.

# Fetching Weather Data with OpenWeatherMap API using AJAX

In this example, we'll demonstrate how to use AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) to fetch weather information from the OpenWeatherMap API and display it on a web page.

## Introduction

The OpenWeatherMap API is a powerful tool for retrieving weather information for locations around the world. This example demonstrates how to use the API to fetch current weather data for a specific city and display it in your application or documentation.

## API Key

Before getting started, you need to sign up for an API key from [OpenWeatherMap](https://openweathermap.org/api) to access their weather data API. Replace `'YOUR_API_KEY'` in the code below with your actual API key.

```javascript
const apiKey = 'YOUR_API_KEY';
```
# Simple Weather App HTML

In this example, we'll provide the HTML structure for a simple weather app that fetches and displays weather data from the OpenWeatherMap API.

## HTML Structure

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>Weather App</title>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Weather Report</h1>
  <button id="fetchButton">Fetch Data</button>
  <div id="weather-info">
    <!-- Data will be displayed here -->
  </div>
  <script src="script.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

## JavaScript (script.js)

Create a JavaScript file named `script.js` to handle the AJAX request and update the weather data on the page:

```javascript
// API Endpoint and Location
const apiUrl = 'https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather';
const location = 'New York'; // Replace with your desired location

// Fetch Weather Data
const xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
xhr.open('GET', `${apiUrl}?q=${location}&appid=${apiKey}`, true);

xhr.onload = function () {
  if (xhr.status === 200) {
    const weatherInfo = document.getElementById('weather-info');
    const data = JSON.parse(xhr.responseText);
    const temperature = (data.main.temp - 273.15).toFixed(2); // Convert from Kelvin to Celsius

    const html = `
      <p><strong>Location:</strong> ${data.name}, ${data.sys.country}</p>
      <p><strong>Temperature:</strong> ${temperature} °C</p>
      <p><strong>Weather:</strong> ${data.weather[0].description}</p>
    `;

    weatherInfo.innerHTML = html;
  } else {
    const weatherInfo = document.getElementById('weather-info');
    weatherInfo.innerHTML = '<p>Failed to fetch weather data.</p>';
  }
};

xhr.send();
```
## Result

When you open the HTML file in a web browser, it will display the weather information for the specified location (New York in this case). Make sure to replace `'YOUR_API_KEY'` with your actual OpenWeatherMap API key.

This example demonstrates how to fetch weather data from the OpenWeatherMap API using AJAX and display it on a simple web page.

Remember to host your HTML and JavaScript files on a web server if you plan to access the API from a live website.

That's it! You've successfully fetched and displayed weather data using the OpenWeatherMap API and AJAX.


## Conclusion

APIs play a crucial role in modern software development by enabling applications to collaborate and share data effectively. Understanding how to use APIs and integrate them into your projects is fundamental for building feature-rich and interconnected software.

AJAX is a foundational technology in modern web development that empowers developers to create dynamic and responsive web applications. While the name suggests XML, AJAX is compatible with various data formats, making it a versatile tool for enhancing the user experience and creating interactive web applications.
