en/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Table of contents

- [Dedication](Dedication.md)
- [Copyright](Copyright.md)
- [Preface](Preface.md)
- [Introduction](README.md)
- [Basics](basics/README.md)
  - [Comments](basics/comments.md)
  - [Variables](basics/variables.md)
  - [Types](basics/types.md)
  - [Equality](basics/equality.md)
- [Numbers](numbers/README.md)
  - [Math](numbers/math.md)
  - [Basic Operators](numbers/operators.md)
  - [Advanced Operators](numbers/advanced.md)
- [Strings](strings/README.md)
  - [Creation](strings/create.md)
  - [Replace](strings/replace.md)
  - [Length](strings/length.md)
  - [Concatenation](strings/concat.md)
  - [Split](strings/split.md)
  - [CharAt](strings/charAt.md)
  - [Substring](strings/substring.md)
- [Conditional Logic](conditional/README.md)
  - [If](conditional/if.md)
  - [Else](conditional/else.md)
  - [Switch](conditional/switch.md)
  - [Comparators](conditional/comparators.md)
  - [Concatenate](conditional/concatenate.md)
- [Arrays](arrays/README.md)
  - [Unshift](arrays/unshift.md)
  - [Map](arrays/map.md)
  - [Spread](arrays/spread.md)
  - [Shift](arrays/shift.md)
  - [Pop](arrays/pop.md)
  - [Join](arrays/join.md)
  - [Length](arrays/length.md)
  - [Push](arrays/push.md)
  - [For Each](arrays/for-each.md)
  - [Sort](arrays/sort.md)
  - [Indices](arrays/indices.md)
  - [Reverse](arrays/reverse.md)
  - [Slice](arrays/slice.md)
- [Loops](loops/README.md)
  - [For](loops/for.md)
  - [While](loops/while.md)
  - [Do...While](loops/dowhile.md)
  - [Continue](loops/continue.md)
  - [Break](loops/break.md)
- [Functions](functions/README.md)
  - [Higher Order Functions](functions/higher-order.md)
  - [Recursive Functions](functions/recursive-functions.md)
  - [Closures](functions/closures.md)
  - [Set Interval](functions/set-interval.md)
  - [Set Timeout](functions/set-timeout.md)
- [Objects](objects/README.md)
  - [Properties](objects/properties.md)
  - [Mutable](objects/mutable.md)
  - [Reference](objects/reference.md)
  - [Prototype](objects/prototype.md)
  - [Delete Operator](objects/delete.md)
  - [Enumeration](objects/enumeration.md)
- [Date and Time](date-and-time.md)
- [JSON](json.md)
- [Error Handling](error-handling/README.md)
  - [Try...Catch](error-handling/try...-catch.md)
  - [Try...Catch...Finally](error-handling/try...catch...finally.md)
- [Modules](modules.md)
- [Regular Expression](regular-expression.md)
- [Classes](classes/README.md)
  - [Static](classes/static.md)
  - [Inheritance](classes/inheritance.md)
  - [Access Modifiers](classes/access-modifiers.md)
- [Browser Object Model (BOM)](browser-object-model-bom/README.md)
  - [Window](browser-object-model-bom/window.md)
  - [Popup](browser-object-model-bom/popup.md)
  - [Screen](browser-object-model-bom/screen.md)
  - [Navigator](browser-object-model-bom/navigator.md)
  - [Cookies](browser-object-model-bom/cookies.md)
  - [History](browser-object-model-bom/history.md)
  - [Location](browser-object-model-bom/location.md)
- [Events](events.md)
- [Promise, async/await](promise-async-await/README.md)
  - [Promise](promise-async-await/promise.md)
  - [Async/Await](promise-async-await/async-await.md)
- [Miscellaneous](miscellaneous/README.md)
  - [Template Literals](miscellaneous/template-literals.md)
  - [Hoisting](miscellaneous/hoisting.md)
  - [Currying](miscellaneous/currying.md)
  - [Polyfills and Transpilers](miscellaneous/polyfills-and-transpilers.md)
  - [Linked List](miscellaneous/linked-list.md)
  - [Global Footprint](miscellaneous/global-footprint.md)
  - [Debugging](miscellaneous/debugging.md)
  - [Building and Deploying JS Application](miscellaneous/building-and-deploying.md)
  - [Callback](miscellaneous/callback.md)
  - [Web API and AJAX](miscellaneous/api-ajax.md)
  - [Single Thread Nature](miscellaneous/single-thread-nature.md)
  - [ECMA Script](miscellaneous/ECMA-script.md)
  - [Testing](miscellaneous/testing.md)
- [Server Side](server-side/README.md)
  - [Node.js](server-side/nodejs.md)
  - [Server Side Rendering](server-side/server-side-rendering.md)
- [Exercises](exercises/README.md)
  - [Console](exercises/console.md)
  - [Multiplication](exercises/multiplication.md)
  - [User Input Variables](exercises/user-input-variables.md)
  - [Constants](exercises/constants.md)
  - [Concatenation](exercises/concatenation.md)
  - [Functions](exercises/functions.md)
  - [Conditional Statements](exercises/conditional-statements.md)
  - [Objects](exercises/objects.md)
  - [FizzBuzz Problem](exercises/fizzbuzz-problem.md)
  - [Get the Titles!](exercises/get-the-titles.md)
- [Interview Questions (Bonus Section)](interview-questions/README.md)
  - [Basic Level](interview-questions/basic-level.md)
  - [Intermediate Level](interview-questions/intermediate-level.md)
  - [Advance Level](interview-questions/advance-level.md)
- [Design Patterns (Bonus Section)](design-patterns/README.md)
  - [Creational Patterns](design-patterns/creational-patterns.md)
  - [Structural Level](design-patterns/structural-patterns.md)
  - [Behavioral Level](design-patterns/behavioral-patterns.md)
- [File System (Bonus Section)](file-system/README.md)
- [ES6 Concepts (Bonus Section)](es6-concepts/README.md)
  - [Let Const](es6-concepts/let-const.md)
  - [Map](es6-concepts/map.md)
  - [Arrow Functions](es6-concepts/arrow-functions.md)
  - [Destructuring](es6-concepts/destructuring.md)
  - [Template Literals](es6-concepts/template-literals.md)
- [Animation Resources](animation-resources/README.md)
  - [GSAP](animation-resources/gsap.md)
  - [Anime JS](animation-resources/animejs.md)
  - [Three JS](animation-resources/threejs.md)
  - [Velocity JS](animation-resources/velocityjs.md)
  - [React Spring](animation-resources/react-spring.md)
  - [Framer Motion](animation-resources/framer-motion.md)
- [JavaScript Behind the Scenes](behind-scenes/README.md)
  - [Call Stack](behind-scenes/call-stack.md)
  - [Engine](behind-scenes/engine.md)
  - [Event Loop](behind-scenes/event-loop.md)
  - [Execution Context](behind-scenes/execution-context.md)
  - [Memory Heap](behind-scenes/memory-heap.md)
  - [Runtime Environment](behind-scenes/runtime-environment.md)
- [References](References.md)
- [Resources](resources.md)
- [Credits](Credits.md)

Commit message:

Add new articles on `this` keyword, rest operator, and more
Added comprehensive documentation for `this` keyword, rest operator, hoisting, and getters and setters in JavaScript. Updated the table of contents to include these new topics for better navigation and understanding.

en/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Table of contents

- [Dedication](Dedication.md)
- [Copyright](Copyright.md)
- [Preface](Preface.md)
- [Introduction](README.md)
- [Basics](basics/README.md)
  - [Comments](basics/comments.md)
  - [Variables](basics/variables.md)
  - [Types](basics/types.md)
  - [Equality](basics/equality.md)
- [Numbers](numbers/README.md)
  - [Math](numbers/math.md)
  - [Basic Operators](numbers/operators.md)
  - [Advanced Operators](numbers/advanced.md)
- [Strings](strings/README.md)
  - [Creation](strings/create.md)
  - [Replace](strings/replace.md)
  - [Length](strings/length.md)
  - [Concatenation](strings/concat.md)
  - [Split](strings/split.md)
  - [CharAt](strings/charAt.md)
  - [Substring](strings/substring.md)
- [Conditional Logic](conditional/README.md)
  - [If](conditional/if.md)
  - [Else](conditional/else.md)
  - [Switch](conditional/switch.md)
  - [Comparators](conditional/comparators.md)
  - [Concatenate](conditional/concatenate.md)
- [Arrays](arrays/README.md)
  - [Unshift](arrays/unshift.md)
  - [Map](arrays/map.md)
  - [Spread](arrays/spread.md)
  - [Shift](arrays/shift.md)
  - [Pop](arrays/pop.md)
  - [Join](arrays/join.md)
  - [Length](arrays/length.md)
  - [Push](arrays/push.md)
  - [For Each](arrays/for-each.md)
  - [Sort](arrays/sort.md)
  - [Indices](arrays/indices.md)
  - [Reverse](arrays/reverse.md)
  - [Slice](arrays/slice.md)
- [Loops](loops/README.md)
  - [For](loops/for.md)
  - [While](loops/while.md)
  - [Do...While](loops/dowhile.md)
  - [Continue](loops/continue.md)
  - [Break](loops/break.md)
- [Functions](functions/README.md)
  - [Higher Order Functions](functions/higher-order.md)
  - [Recursive Functions](functions/recursive-functions.md)
  - [Closures](functions/closures.md)
  - [Set Interval](functions/set-interval.md)
  - [Set Timeout](functions/set-timeout.md)
  - [Rest Operator](functions/rest-operator.md)
  - [This Keyword](functions/this-keyword.md)
  - [Hoisting](functions/hoisting.md)
  - [Getters and Setters](functions/getters-setters.md)
- [Objects](objects/README.md)
  - [Properties](objects/properties.md)
  - [Mutable](objects/mutable.md)
  - [Reference](objects/reference.md)
  - [Prototype](objects/prototype.md)
  - [Delete Operator](objects/delete.md)
  - [Enumeration](objects/enumeration.md)
- [Date and Time](date-and-time.md)
- [JSON](json.md)
- [Error Handling](error-handling/README.md)
  - [Try...Catch](error-handling/try...-catch.md)
  - [Try...Catch...Finally](error-handling/try...catch...finally.md)
- [Modules](modules.md)
- [Regular Expression](regular-expression.md)
- [Classes](classes/README.md)
  - [Static](classes/static.md)
  - [Inheritance](classes/inheritance.md)
  - [Access Modifiers](classes/access-modifiers.md)
- [Browser Object Model (BOM)](browser-object-model-bom/README.md)
  - [Window](browser-object-model-bom/window.md)
  - [Popup](browser-object-model-bom/popup.md)
  - [Screen](browser-object-model-bom/screen.md)
  - [Navigator](browser-object-model-bom/navigator.md)
  - [Cookies](browser-object-model-bom/cookies.md)
  - [History](browser-object-model-bom/history.md)
  - [Location](browser-object-model-bom/location.md)
- [Events](events.md)
- [Promise, async/await](promise-async-await/README.md)
  - [Promise](promise-async-await/promise.md)
  - [Async/Await](promise-async-await/async-await.md)
- [Miscellaneous](miscellaneous/README.md)
  - [Template Literals](miscellaneous/template-literals.md)
  - [Hoisting](miscellaneous/hoisting.md)
  - [Currying](miscellaneous/currying.md)
  - [Polyfills and Transpilers](miscellaneous/polyfills-and-transpilers.md)
  - [Linked List](miscellaneous/linked-list.md)
  - [Global Footprint](miscellaneous/global-footprint.md)
  - [Debugging](miscellaneous/debugging.md)
  - [Building and Deploying JS Application](miscellaneous/building-and-deploying.md)
  - [Callback](miscellaneous/callback.md)
  - [Web API and AJAX](miscellaneous/api-ajax.md)
  - [Single Thread Nature](miscellaneous/single-thread-nature.md)
  - [ECMA Script](miscellaneous/ECMA-script.md)
  - [Testing](miscellaneous/testing.md)
- [Server Side](server-side/README.md)
  - [Node.js](server-side/nodejs.md)
  - [Server Side Rendering](server-side/server-side-rendering.md)
- [Exercises](exercises/README.md)
  - [Console](exercises/console.md)
  - [Multiplication](exercises/multiplication.md)
  - [User Input Variables](exercises/user-input-variables.md)
  - [Constants](exercises/constants.md)
  - [Concatenation](exercises/concatenation.md)
  - [Functions](exercises/functions.md)
  - [Conditional Statements](exercises/conditional-statements.md)
  - [Objects](exercises/objects.md)
  - [FizzBuzz Problem](exercises/fizzbuzz-problem.md)
  - [Get the Titles!](exercises/get-the-titles.md)
- [Interview Questions (Bonus Section)](interview-questions/README.md)
  - [Basic Level](interview-questions/basic-level.md)
  - [Intermediate Level](interview-questions/intermediate-level.md)
  - [Advance Level](interview-questions/advance-level.md)
- [Design Patterns (Bonus Section)](design-patterns/README.md)
  - [Creational Patterns](design-patterns/creational-patterns.md)
  - [Structural Level](design-patterns/structural-patterns.md)
  - [Behavioral Level](design-patterns/behavioral-patterns.md)
- [File System (Bonus Section)](file-system/README.md)
- [ES6 Concepts (Bonus Section)](es6-concepts/README.md)
  - [Let Const](es6-concepts/let-const.md)
  - [Map](es6-concepts/map.md)
  - [Arrow Functions](es6-concepts/arrow-functions.md)
  - [Destructuring](es6-concepts/destructuring.md)
  - [Template Literals](es6-concepts/template-literals.md)
- [Animation Resources](animation-resources/README.md)
  - [GSAP](animation-resources/gsap.md)
  - [Anime JS](animation-resources/animejs.md)
  - [Three JS](animation-resources/threejs.md)
  - [Velocity JS](animation-resources/velocityjs.md)
  - [React Spring](animation-resources/react-spring.md)
  - [Framer Motion](animation-resources/framer-motion.md)
- [JavaScript Behind the Scenes](behind-scenes/README.md)
  - [Call Stack](behind-scenes/call-stack.md)
  - [Engine](behind-scenes/engine.md)
  - [Event Loop](behind-scenes/event-loop.md)
  - [Execution Context](behind-scenes/execution-context.md)
  - [Memory Heap](behind-scenes/memory-heap.md)
  - [Runtime Environment](behind-scenes/runtime-environment.md)
- [References](References.md)
- [Resources](resources.md)
- [Credits](Credits.md)
