en/functions/higher-order.md, before:

---
chapter: 8
pageNumber: 54
---
# Higher order

Higher order functions are functions that manipulate other functions. For example, a function can take other functions as arguments and/or produce a function as its return value. Such _fancy_ functional techniques are powerful constructs available to you in JavaScript and other high-level languages like python, lisp, etc.

We will now create two simple functions, `add_2` and `double`, and a higher order function called `map`. `map` will accept two arguments, `func` and `list` (its declaration will therefore begin `map(func,list)`), and return an array. `func` (the first argument) will be a function that will be applied to each of the elements in the array `list` (the second argument).

```javascript
// Define two simple functions
let add_2 = function (x) {
  return x + 2;
};
let double = function (x) {
  return 2 * x;
};

// map is cool function that accepts 2 arguments:
//  func    the function to call
//  list    a array of values to call func on
let map = function (func, list) {
  let output = []; // output list
  for (idx in list) {
    output.push(func(list[idx]));
  }
  return output;
};

// We use map to apply a function to an entire list
// of inputs to "map" them to a list of corresponding outputs
map(add_2, [5, 6, 7]); // => [7, 8, 9]
map(double, [5, 6, 7]); // => [10, 12, 14]
```

The functions in the above example are simple. However, when passed as arguments to other functions, they can be composed in unforeseen ways to build more complex functions.

For example, if we notice that we use the invocations `map(add_2, ...)` and `map(double, ...)` very often in our code, we could decide we want to create two special-purpose list processing functions that have the desired operation baked into them. Using function composition, we could do this as follows:

```javascript
process_add_2 = function (list) {
  return map(add_2, list);
};
process_double = function (list) {
  return map(double, list);
};
process_add_2([5, 6, 7]); // => [7, 8, 9]
process_double([5, 6, 7]); // => [10, 12, 14]
```

Now let's create a function called `buildProcessor` that takes a function `func` as input and returns a `func`-processor, that is, a function that applies `func` to each input in list.

```javascript
// a function that generates a list processor that performs
let buildProcessor = function (func) {
  let process_func = function (list) {
    return map(func, list);
  };
  return process_func;
};
// calling buildProcessor returns a function which is called with a list input

// using buildProcessor we could generate the add_2 and double list processors as follows:
process_add_2 = buildProcessor(add_2);
process_double = buildProcessor(double);

process_add_2([5, 6, 7]); // => [7, 8, 9]
process_double([5, 6, 7]); // => [10, 12, 14]
```

Let's look at another example. We'll create a function called `buildMultiplier` that takes a number `x` as input and returns a function that multiplies its argument by `x` :

```javascript
let buildMultiplier = function (x) {
  return function (y) {
    return x * y;
  };
};

let double = buildMultiplier(2);
let triple = buildMultiplier(3);

double(3); // => 6
triple(3); // => 9
```

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add description of each chapter for SEO purposes

en/functions/higher-order.md, after:

---
chapter: 8
pageNumber: 54
description: Higher order functions are functions that manipulate other functions. It possess considerable power as it enable functional composition, abstraction, and the capability to generate code that is both versatile and easily reusable.
---
# Higher order

Higher order functions are functions that manipulate other functions. For example, a function can take other functions as arguments and/or produce a function as its return value. Such _fancy_ functional techniques are powerful constructs available to you in JavaScript and other high-level languages like python, lisp, etc.

We will now create two simple functions, `add_2` and `double`, and a higher order function called `map`. `map` will accept two arguments, `func` and `list` (its declaration will therefore begin `map(func,list)`), and return an array. `func` (the first argument) will be a function that will be applied to each of the elements in the array `list` (the second argument).

```javascript
// Define two simple functions
let add_2 = function (x) {
  return x + 2;
};
let double = function (x) {
  return 2 * x;
};

// map is cool function that accepts 2 arguments:
//  func    the function to call
//  list    a array of values to call func on
let map = function (func, list) {
  let output = []; // output list
  for (idx in list) {
    output.push(func(list[idx]));
  }
  return output;
};

// We use map to apply a function to an entire list
// of inputs to "map" them to a list of corresponding outputs
map(add_2, [5, 6, 7]); // => [7, 8, 9]
map(double, [5, 6, 7]); // => [10, 12, 14]
```

The functions in the above example are simple. However, when passed as arguments to other functions, they can be composed in unforeseen ways to build more complex functions.

For example, if we notice that we use the invocations `map(add_2, ...)` and `map(double, ...)` very often in our code, we could decide we want to create two special-purpose list processing functions that have the desired operation baked into them. Using function composition, we could do this as follows:

```javascript
process_add_2 = function (list) {
  return map(add_2, list);
};
process_double = function (list) {
  return map(double, list);
};
process_add_2([5, 6, 7]); // => [7, 8, 9]
process_double([5, 6, 7]); // => [10, 12, 14]
```

Now let's create a function called `buildProcessor` that takes a function `func` as input and returns a `func`-processor, that is, a function that applies `func` to each input in list.

```javascript
// a function that generates a list processor that performs
let buildProcessor = function (func) {
  let process_func = function (list) {
    return map(func, list);
  };
  return process_func;
};
// calling buildProcessor returns a function which is called with a list input

// using buildProcessor we could generate the add_2 and double list processors as follows:
process_add_2 = buildProcessor(add_2);
process_double = buildProcessor(double);

process_add_2([5, 6, 7]); // => [7, 8, 9]
process_double([5, 6, 7]); // => [10, 12, 14]
```

Let's look at another example. We'll create a function called `buildMultiplier` that takes a number `x` as input and returns a function that multiplies its argument by `x` :

```javascript
let buildMultiplier = function (x) {
  return function (y) {
    return x * y;
  };
};

let double = buildMultiplier(2);
let triple = buildMultiplier(3);

double(3); // => 6
triple(3); // => 9
```
