en/arrays/length.md, before:

---
chapter: 6
pageNumber: 44  
---
# Length

Arrays have a property called `length`, and it's pretty much exactly as it sounds, it's the length of the array.

```javascript
let array = [1, 2, 3];

let l = array.length;

// Result: l = 3
```

The length property also sets the number of elements in an array. For example.

```javascript
let fruits = ["Banana", "Orange", "Apple", "Mango"];
fruits.length = 2;

console.log(fruits);
// Result: ['Banana', 'Orange']
```

You can also use the `length` property to get the last element of an array by using it as an index. For example:

```c
console.log(fruits[fruits.length - 1]); // Result: Orange
```

You can also use the `length` property to add elements to the end of an array. For example:

```c
fruits[fruits.length] = "Pineapple";
console.log(fruits); // Result: ['Banana', 'Orange', 'Pineapple']
```

{% hint style="info" %}
The `length` property is automatically updated when elements are added or removed from the array.
{% endhint %}

It's also worth noting that the `length` property is not a method, so you don't need to use parentheses when accessing it. It's simply a property of the array object that you can access like any other object property.

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add description of each chapter for SEO purposes

en/arrays/length.md, after:

---
chapter: 6
pageNumber: 44
description: Arrays hava a property called length that measures the length of an array. 
---
# Length

Arrays have a property called `length`, and it's pretty much exactly as it sounds, it's the length of the array.

```javascript
let array = [1, 2, 3];

let l = array.length;

// Result: l = 3
```

The length property also sets the number of elements in an array. For example.

```javascript
let fruits = ["Banana", "Orange", "Apple", "Mango"];
fruits.length = 2;

console.log(fruits);
// Result: ['Banana', 'Orange']
```

You can also use the `length` property to get the last element of an array by using it as an index. For example:

```c
console.log(fruits[fruits.length - 1]); // Result: Orange
```

You can also use the `length` property to add elements to the end of an array. For example:

```c
fruits[fruits.length] = "Pineapple";
console.log(fruits); // Result: ['Banana', 'Orange', 'Pineapple']
```

{% hint style="info" %}
The `length` property is automatically updated when elements are added or removed from the array.
{% endhint %}

It's also worth noting that the `length` property is not a method, so you don't need to use parentheses when accessing it. It's simply a property of the array object that you can access like any other object property.
