en/conditional/if.md, before:

---
chapter: 5
pageNumber: 30
---
# If

The easiest condition is an if statement and its syntax is `if(condition){ do this … }`. The condition has to be true for the code inside the curly braces to be executed. You can for example test a string and set the value of another string dependent on its value as described below.

```javascript
let country = "France";
let weather;
let food;
let currency;

if (country === "England") {
  weather = "horrible";
  food = "filling";
  currency = "pound sterling";
}

if (country === "France") {
  weather = "nice";
  food = "stunning, but hardly ever vegetarian";
  currency = "funny, small and colourful";
}

if (country === "Germany") {
  weather = "average";
  food = "wurst thing ever";
  currency = "funny, small and colourful";
}

let message =
  "this is " +
  country +
  ", the weather is " +
  weather +
  ", the food is " +
  food +
  " and the " +
  "currency is " +
  currency;
  
console.log(message);
// 'this is France, the weather is nice, the food is stunning, but hardly ever vegetarian and the currency is funny, small and colourful'
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Conditions can also be nested.
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add description of each chapter for SEO purposes

en/conditional/if.md, after:

---
chapter: 5
pageNumber: 30
description: The if condition evaluates the condition, and if the condition is true, the code block following the if statement is executed; otherwise, it is skipped.
---
# If

The easiest condition is an if statement and its syntax is `if(condition){ do this … }`. The condition has to be true for the code inside the curly braces to be executed. You can for example test a string and set the value of another string dependent on its value as described below.

```javascript
let country = "France";
let weather;
let food;
let currency;

if (country === "England") {
  weather = "horrible";
  food = "filling";
  currency = "pound sterling";
}

if (country === "France") {
  weather = "nice";
  food = "stunning, but hardly ever vegetarian";
  currency = "funny, small and colourful";
}

if (country === "Germany") {
  weather = "average";
  food = "wurst thing ever";
  currency = "funny, small and colourful";
}

let message =
  "this is " +
  country +
  ", the weather is " +
  weather +
  ", the food is " +
  food +
  " and the " +
  "currency is " +
  currency;
  
console.log(message);
// 'this is France, the weather is nice, the food is stunning, but hardly ever vegetarian and the currency is funny, small and colourful'
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Conditions can also be nested.
{% endhint %}
