en/numbers/advanced.md, before:

---
chapter: 3
pageNumber: 21
---
# Advanced Operators

When operators are put together without parenthesis, the order in which they are applied is determined by the _precedence_ of the operators. Multiplication `(*)` and division `(/)` has higher precedence than addition `(+)` and subtraction `(-)`.

```javascript
// multiplication is done first, which is then followed by addition
let x = 100 + 50 * 3; // 250
// with parenthesis operations inside the parenthesis are computed first
let y = (100 + 50) * 3; // 450
// operations with the same precedences are computed from left to right
let z = 100 / 50 * 3;
```

Several advanced math operators can use be used while writing program. Here is a list of some of the main advanced math operators:

* **Modulo operator (`%`)**: The modulo operator returns the remainder of a division operation. For example:

```javascript
console.log(10 % 3); // 1
console.log(11 % 3); // 2
console.log(12 % 3); // 0
```

* **Exponentiation operator (\* *)**: The exponentiation operator raises a number to the power of another number. It is a newer operator and is not supported in all browsers, so you may need to use the `Math.pow` function instead. For example:

```javascript
console.log(2 ** 3); // 8
console.log(3 ** 2); // 9
console.log(4 ** 3); // 64
```

* **Increment operator (`++`)**: The increment operator increments a number by one. It can be used as a prefix (before the operand) or a postfix (after the operand). For example:

```javascript
let x = 1;
x++; // x is now 2
++x; // x is now 3
```

* **Decrement operator (`--`)**: The decrement operator decrements a number by one. It can be used as a prefix (before the operand) or a postfix (after the operand). For example:

```javascript
let y = 3;
y--; // y is now 2
--y; // y is now 1
```

* **Math object**: The `Math` object is a built-in object in JavaScript that provides mathematical functions and constants. You can use the methods of the `Math` object to perform advanced math operations, such as finding the square root of a number, calculating the sine of a number, or generating a random number. For example:

```javascript
console.log(Math.sqrt(9)); // 3
console.log(Math.sin(0)); // 0
console.log(Math.random()); // a random number between 0 and 1
```

These are just a few examples of the advanced math operators and functions available in JavaScript. There are many more that you can use to perform advanced math operations while writing program.

{% exercise %}
Use the following advanced operators to perform operations on `num1` and `num2`.

{% initial %}
let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 5;

// ++ operator to increment the value of num1.
const result1 =
// -- operator to decrement the value of num2.
const result2 =
//  += operator to add num2 to num1.
const result3 =
// -= operator to subtract num2 from num1.
const result4 =

{% solution %}
let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 5;

// ++ operator to increment the value of num1.

num1++;
const result1 = num1; // 11
// -- operator to decrement the value of num2.
num2--;
const result2 = num2; // 4
//  += operator to add num2 to num1.
num1 += num2;
const result3 = num1 // 15
// -= operator to subtract num2 from num1.
num1 -= num2;
const result4 = num1 // 11

{% validation %}
assert(result1 === 11 && result2 === 4 && result3 === 15 && result4 === 11 );

{% context %}
{% endexercise %}

## Nullish coalescing operator '??'

The `nullish` coalescing operator returns the first argument if it's not `null/undefined`, else the second one. It is written as two question marks `??`. The result of `x ?? y` is:

* if `x` is defined, then `x`,
* if `y` isn’t defined, then `y`.

{% hint style="info" %}
It's a recent addition to the language and might need polyfills to support old browsers
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add description of each chapter for SEO purposes

en/numbers/advanced.md, after:

---
chapter: 3
pageNumber: 21
description: There are several advanced operators that provide powerful functionality and allow us to perform various operations beyond basic arithmetic and logical operations. These advanced operators can be very helpful for manipulating data, performing bitwise operations, working with objects, and more.
---
# Advanced Operators

When operators are put together without parenthesis, the order in which they are applied is determined by the _precedence_ of the operators. Multiplication `(*)` and division `(/)` has higher precedence than addition `(+)` and subtraction `(-)`.

```javascript
// multiplication is done first, which is then followed by addition
let x = 100 + 50 * 3; // 250
// with parenthesis operations inside the parenthesis are computed first
let y = (100 + 50) * 3; // 450
// operations with the same precedences are computed from left to right
let z = 100 / 50 * 3;
```

Several advanced math operators can use be used while writing program. Here is a list of some of the main advanced math operators:

* **Modulo operator (`%`)**: The modulo operator returns the remainder of a division operation. For example:

```javascript
console.log(10 % 3); // 1
console.log(11 % 3); // 2
console.log(12 % 3); // 0
```

* **Exponentiation operator (\* *)**: The exponentiation operator raises a number to the power of another number. It is a newer operator and is not supported in all browsers, so you may need to use the `Math.pow` function instead. For example:

```javascript
console.log(2 ** 3); // 8
console.log(3 ** 2); // 9
console.log(4 ** 3); // 64
```

* **Increment operator (`++`)**: The increment operator increments a number by one. It can be used as a prefix (before the operand) or a postfix (after the operand). For example:

```javascript
let x = 1;
x++; // x is now 2
++x; // x is now 3
```

* **Decrement operator (`--`)**: The decrement operator decrements a number by one. It can be used as a prefix (before the operand) or a postfix (after the operand). For example:

```javascript
let y = 3;
y--; // y is now 2
--y; // y is now 1
```

* **Math object**: The `Math` object is a built-in object in JavaScript that provides mathematical functions and constants. You can use the methods of the `Math` object to perform advanced math operations, such as finding the square root of a number, calculating the sine of a number, or generating a random number. For example:

```javascript
console.log(Math.sqrt(9)); // 3
console.log(Math.sin(0)); // 0
console.log(Math.random()); // a random number between 0 and 1
```

These are just a few examples of the advanced math operators and functions available in JavaScript. There are many more that you can use to perform advanced math operations while writing program.

{% exercise %}
Use the following advanced operators to perform operations on `num1` and `num2`.

{% initial %}
let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 5;

// ++ operator to increment the value of num1.
const result1 =
// -- operator to decrement the value of num2.
const result2 =
//  += operator to add num2 to num1.
const result3 =
// -= operator to subtract num2 from num1.
const result4 =

{% solution %}
let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 5;

// ++ operator to increment the value of num1.

num1++;
const result1 = num1; // 11
// -- operator to decrement the value of num2.
num2--;
const result2 = num2; // 4
//  += operator to add num2 to num1.
num1 += num2;
const result3 = num1 // 15
// -= operator to subtract num2 from num1.
num1 -= num2;
const result4 = num1 // 11

{% validation %}
assert(result1 === 11 && result2 === 4 && result3 === 15 && result4 === 11 );

{% context %}
{% endexercise %}

## Nullish coalescing operator '??'

The `nullish` coalescing operator returns the first argument if it's not `null/undefined`, else the second one. It is written as two question marks `??`. The result of `x ?? y` is:

* if `x` is defined, then `x`,
* if `y` isn’t defined, then `y`.

{% hint style="info" %}
It's a recent addition to the language and might need polyfills to support old browsers
{% endhint %}
