en/numbers/operators.md, before:

---
chapter: 3
pageNumber: 19
---
# Basic Operators

Mathematic operations to numbers can be performed using some basic operators like:

* **Addition operator (`+`)**: The addition operator adds two numbers together. For example:

```javascript
console.log(1 + 2); // 3
console.log(1 + (-2)); // -1
```

* **Subtraction operator (`-`)**: The subtraction operator subtracts one number from another. For example:

```javascript
console.log(3 - 2); // 1
console.log(3 - (-2)); // 5
```

* **Multiplication operator (`*`)**: The multiplication operator multiplies two numbers. For example:

```javascript
console.log(2 * 3); // 6
console.log(2 * (-3)); // -6
```

* **Division operator (`/`)**: The division operator divides one number by another. For example:

```javascript
console.log(6 / 2); // 3
console.log(6 / (-2)); // -3
```

* **Remainder operator (`%`)**: The remainder operator returns the remainder of a division operation. For example:

```javascript
console.log(10 % 3); // 1
console.log(11 % 3); // 2
console.log(12 % 3); // 0
```

The JavaScript interpreter works from left to right. One can use parentheses just like in math to separate and group expressions: `c = (a / b) + d`

{% hint style="warning" %}
JavaScript uses the `+` operator for both addition and concatenation. Numbers are added whereas strings are concatenated.
{% endhint %}

The term `NaN` is a reserved word indicating that a number is not a legal number, this arises when we perform arithmetic with a non-numeric string will result in `NaN` (Not a Number).

```javascript
let x = 100 / "10";
```

The `parseInt` method parses a value as a string and returns the first integer.

```javascript
parseInt("10"); // 10
parseInt("10.00"); // 10
parseInt("10.33"); // 10
parseInt("34 45 66"); // 34
parseInt(" 60 "); // 60
parseInt("40 years"); //40 
parseInt("He was 40"); //NaN
```

In JavaScript, if we calculate a number outside the largest possible number it returns `Infinity`.

```javascript
let x =  2 / 0; // Infinity
let y = -2 / 0; // -Infinity
```
{% exercise %}
Use the math operators +, -, *, /, and % to perform the following operations on `num1` and `num2`.

{% initial %}
let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 5;

// Add num1 and num2.
let addResult =
// Subtract num2 from num1.
let subtractResult =
// Multiply num1 and num2.
let multiplyResult =
// Divide num1 by num2.
let divideResult =
// Find the remainder num1 is divided by num2.
let reminderResult =

{% solution %}
let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 5;

// Add num1 and num2.
let addResult = (num1 + num2);
// Subtract num2 from num1.
let subtractResult = (num1 - num2);
// Multiply num1 and num2.
let multiplyResult = (num1 * num2);
// Divide num1 by num2.
let divideResult = (num1 / num2);
// Find the remainder num1 is divided by num2.
let reminderResult = (num1 % num2);

{% validation %}
assert(addResult === 15 && subtractResult === 5 && multiplyResult === 50 && divideResult === 2 && reminderResult === 0  );

{% context %}
{% endexercise %}

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add description of each chapter for SEO purposes

en/numbers/operators.md, after:

---
chapter: 3
pageNumber: 19
description: Operators are symbols or keywords used to perform operations on data, such as variables, values, or expressions. They are an essential part of the language and allow developers to perform arithmetic, comparison, logical, assignment, and other operations. 
---
# Basic Operators

Mathematic operations to numbers can be performed using some basic operators like:

* **Addition operator (`+`)**: The addition operator adds two numbers together. For example:

```javascript
console.log(1 + 2); // 3
console.log(1 + (-2)); // -1
```

* **Subtraction operator (`-`)**: The subtraction operator subtracts one number from another. For example:

```javascript
console.log(3 - 2); // 1
console.log(3 - (-2)); // 5
```

* **Multiplication operator (`*`)**: The multiplication operator multiplies two numbers. For example:

```javascript
console.log(2 * 3); // 6
console.log(2 * (-3)); // -6
```

* **Division operator (`/`)**: The division operator divides one number by another. For example:

```javascript
console.log(6 / 2); // 3
console.log(6 / (-2)); // -3
```

* **Remainder operator (`%`)**: The remainder operator returns the remainder of a division operation. For example:

```javascript
console.log(10 % 3); // 1
console.log(11 % 3); // 2
console.log(12 % 3); // 0
```

The JavaScript interpreter works from left to right. One can use parentheses just like in math to separate and group expressions: `c = (a / b) + d`

{% hint style="warning" %}
JavaScript uses the `+` operator for both addition and concatenation. Numbers are added whereas strings are concatenated.
{% endhint %}

The term `NaN` is a reserved word indicating that a number is not a legal number, this arises when we perform arithmetic with a non-numeric string will result in `NaN` (Not a Number).

```javascript
let x = 100 / "10";
```

The `parseInt` method parses a value as a string and returns the first integer.

```javascript
parseInt("10"); // 10
parseInt("10.00"); // 10
parseInt("10.33"); // 10
parseInt("34 45 66"); // 34
parseInt(" 60 "); // 60
parseInt("40 years"); //40 
parseInt("He was 40"); //NaN
```

In JavaScript, if we calculate a number outside the largest possible number it returns `Infinity`.

```javascript
let x =  2 / 0; // Infinity
let y = -2 / 0; // -Infinity
```
{% exercise %}
Use the math operators +, -, *, /, and % to perform the following operations on `num1` and `num2`.

{% initial %}
let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 5;

// Add num1 and num2.
let addResult =
// Subtract num2 from num1.
let subtractResult =
// Multiply num1 and num2.
let multiplyResult =
// Divide num1 by num2.
let divideResult =
// Find the remainder num1 is divided by num2.
let reminderResult =

{% solution %}
let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 5;

// Add num1 and num2.
let addResult = (num1 + num2);
// Subtract num2 from num1.
let subtractResult = (num1 - num2);
// Multiply num1 and num2.
let multiplyResult = (num1 * num2);
// Divide num1 by num2.
let divideResult = (num1 / num2);
// Find the remainder num1 is divided by num2.
let reminderResult = (num1 % num2);

{% validation %}
assert(addResult === 15 && subtractResult === 5 && multiplyResult === 50 && divideResult === 2 && reminderResult === 0  );

{% context %}
{% endexercise %}
