en/classes/access-modifiers.md, before:

---
chapter: 15
pageNumber: 78
---
# Access Modifiers

`public`, `private`, and `protected` are the three access modifiers used in class to control its access from the outside. By default, all members (properties, fields, methods, or functions) are publicly accessible from outside the class.

```javascript
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.name = name;
  }
  static hello(x) {
    return "Hello " + x.name;
  }
}
let myCar = new Car("Toyota");
console.log(Car.hello(myCar)); // Hello Toyota
```

`private`  members can access only internally within the class and cannot be accessible from outside.  Private should start with `#`.

```javascript
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.name = name;
  }
  static hello(x) {
    return "Hello " + x.name;
  }
  #present(carname) {
    return 'I have a ' + this.carname;
  }
}
let myCar = new Car("Toyota");
console.log(myCar.#present("Camry")); // Error
console.log(Car.hello(myCar)); // Hello Toyota
```

`protected` fields are accessible only from inside the class and those extending it. These are useful for the internal interface as the inheriting class also gains access to the parent class.  Protected fields with `_` .

```javascript
class Car {
  constructor(brand) {
    this.carname = brand;
  }
  _present() {
    return 'I have a ' + this.carname;
  }
}

class Model extends Car {
  constructor(brand, mod) {
    super(brand);
    this.model = mod;
  }
  show() {
    return this._present() + ', it is a ' + this.model;
  }
}
let myCar = new Model("Toyota", "Camry");
console.log(myCar.show()) // I have a Toyota, it is a Camry
```

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add description of each chapter for SEO purposes

en/classes/access-modifiers.md, after:

---
chapter: 15
pageNumber: 78
description: Access modifiers control the visibility and accessibility of class members (properties and methods). public, private, and protected are the three access modifiers used in class to control its access from the outside. By default, all members (properties, fields, methods, or functions) are publicly accessible from outside the class.
---
# Access Modifiers

`public`, `private`, and `protected` are the three access modifiers used in class to control its access from the outside. By default, all members (properties, fields, methods, or functions) are publicly accessible from outside the class.

```javascript
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.name = name;
  }
  static hello(x) {
    return "Hello " + x.name;
  }
}
let myCar = new Car("Toyota");
console.log(Car.hello(myCar)); // Hello Toyota
```

`private`  members can access only internally within the class and cannot be accessible from outside.  Private should start with `#`.

```javascript
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.name = name;
  }
  static hello(x) {
    return "Hello " + x.name;
  }
  #present(carname) {
    return 'I have a ' + this.carname;
  }
}
let myCar = new Car("Toyota");
console.log(myCar.#present("Camry")); // Error
console.log(Car.hello(myCar)); // Hello Toyota
```

`protected` fields are accessible only from inside the class and those extending it. These are useful for the internal interface as the inheriting class also gains access to the parent class.  Protected fields with `_` .

```javascript
class Car {
  constructor(brand) {
    this.carname = brand;
  }
  _present() {
    return 'I have a ' + this.carname;
  }
}

class Model extends Car {
  constructor(brand, mod) {
    super(brand);
    this.model = mod;
  }
  show() {
    return this._present() + ', it is a ' + this.model;
  }
}
let myCar = new Model("Toyota", "Camry");
console.log(myCar.show()) // I have a Toyota, it is a Camry
```
