en/objects/prototype.md, before:

---
chapter: 9
pageNumber: 61
---
# Prototype

Every object is linked to a prototype object from which it inherits properties. The objects created from object literals (`{}`) are automatically linked to `Object.prototype`, which is an object that comes standard with JavaScript.

When a JavaScript interpreter (a module in your browser) tries to find a property, that you want to retrieve, like in the following code:

```javascript
let adult = { age: 26 },
  retrievedProperty = adult.age;
// The line above
```

First, the interpreter looks through every property the object itself has. For example, `adult` has only one own property — `age`. But besides that one, it actually has a few more properties, which were inherited from `Object.prototype.`

```javascript
let stringRepresentation = adult.toString();
// the variable has value of '[object Object]'
```

The `toString` is an Object.prototype's property, which was inherited. It has a value of a function, which returns a string representation of the object. If you want it to return a more meaningful representation, then you can override it. Simply add a new property to the adult object.

```javascript
adult.toString = function () {
  return "I'm " + this.age;
};
```

If you call the `toString` function now, the interpreter will find the new property in the object itself and stop.

Thus the interpreter retrieves the first property it will find on the way from the object itself and further through its prototype.

To set your own object as a prototype instead of the default Object.prototype, you can invoke `Object.create` as follows:

```javascript
let child = Object.create(adult);
/* This way of creating objects lets us easily replace the default Object.prototype with the one we want. In this case, the child's prototype is the adult object. */
child.age = 8;
/* Previously, child didn't have its own age property, and the interpreter had to look further to the child's prototype to find it.
 Now, when we set the child's own age, the interpreter will not go further.
 Note: adult's age is still 26. */
let stringRepresentation = child.toString();
// The value is "I'm 8".
/* Note: we have not overridden the child's toString property, thus the adult's method will be invoked. If adult did not have toString property, then Object.prototype's toString method would be invoked, and we would get "[object Object]" instead of "I'm 8" */
```

The `child`'s prototype is `adult`, whose prototype is `Object.prototype`. This sequence of prototypes is called a  **prototype chain**.

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add description of each chapter for SEO purposes

en/objects/prototype.md, after:

---
chapter: 9
pageNumber: 61
description: Every object has a special property called prototype, which is a reference to another object. The prototype property is an essential part of the prototype-based inheritance system in JavaScript, and it allows objects to inherit properties and methods from other objects. 
---
# Prototype

Every object is linked to a prototype object from which it inherits properties. The objects created from object literals (`{}`) are automatically linked to `Object.prototype`, which is an object that comes standard with JavaScript.

When a JavaScript interpreter (a module in your browser) tries to find a property, that you want to retrieve, like in the following code:

```javascript
let adult = { age: 26 },
  retrievedProperty = adult.age;
// The line above
```

First, the interpreter looks through every property the object itself has. For example, `adult` has only one own property — `age`. But besides that one, it actually has a few more properties, which were inherited from `Object.prototype.`

```javascript
let stringRepresentation = adult.toString();
// the variable has value of '[object Object]'
```

The `toString` is an Object.prototype's property, which was inherited. It has a value of a function, which returns a string representation of the object. If you want it to return a more meaningful representation, then you can override it. Simply add a new property to the adult object.

```javascript
adult.toString = function () {
  return "I'm " + this.age;
};
```

If you call the `toString` function now, the interpreter will find the new property in the object itself and stop.

Thus the interpreter retrieves the first property it will find on the way from the object itself and further through its prototype.

To set your own object as a prototype instead of the default Object.prototype, you can invoke `Object.create` as follows:

```javascript
let child = Object.create(adult);
/* This way of creating objects lets us easily replace the default Object.prototype with the one we want. In this case, the child's prototype is the adult object. */
child.age = 8;
/* Previously, child didn't have its own age property, and the interpreter had to look further to the child's prototype to find it.
 Now, when we set the child's own age, the interpreter will not go further.
 Note: adult's age is still 26. */
let stringRepresentation = child.toString();
// The value is "I'm 8".
/* Note: we have not overridden the child's toString property, thus the adult's method will be invoked. If adult did not have toString property, then Object.prototype's toString method would be invoked, and we would get "[object Object]" instead of "I'm 8" */
```

The `child`'s prototype is `adult`, whose prototype is `Object.prototype`. This sequence of prototypes is called a  **prototype chain**.
